Try, if you will, to imagine a virus that becomes a global pandemic.
The Daily News is ominous, fear and panic hold full sway.
Well, that's not too difficult to imagine, isn't it?
But what if they found a cure?
Well now instantly the newscaster's tone would change.
He would be enthusiastic.
And why is that?
Because he has good news to share to the world's population.
Well, how about us?
Please find Isaiah 52-7.
Isaiah 52-7, why should we be enthusiastic when we teach those who have been exposed to
the evil viruses of Satan's old world?
Well, it's because we have the best news ever to share with the world's population.
Notice how this is brought out Isaiah 52-7.
It says how beautiful on the mountains are the feet of the one bringing good news, the
one proclaiming peace, the one bringing good news of something better, the one proclaiming
salvation, the one saying in Zion, your God has become king.
Yes, we have good news that's better than conquering one perturbing virus.
Now, in the videos of this symposium, you probably noticed that initially Nida was enthused.
And a regular Bible study has been established with Jade.
But it's our continued enthusiasm that can help keep a student interested and motivate
them to act.
On the following dramatization, you will note that Nida learns the importance of maintaining
enthusiasm.
Nida, you're focused.
It's Jade again.
We've only studied once this month.
She's so unscheduled.
I thought you said she was doing well.
She was.
Now it's just, see you later.
How was your last study?
That's a very interesting question, but it's not really what we're talking about in
this paragraph, is it?
So, let's just read the scripture, shall we?
In my defense, I was annoyed.
She never even attempts to explain why she can't solve.
I understand.
Really I do.
But if she's still open to studying, you can't let these little things drain your enthusiasm
I know.
I just...
I wish she was more structured.
It's like she doesn't take anything seriously.
No study's perfect.
She's making some effort.
Focus on that.
If anyone's enthusiastic as a miscontagious, it's yours.
I haven't mentioned it already.
I really love our chats and I appreciate all your questions.
Thanks.
I know sometimes they're crazy.
No.
You're a deep thinker.
It's good for both of us.
Okay.
Yeah.
We're cool.
Do you remember when Nita first met Jade?
Jade said, like I'm jaded.
The English word jaded means made dull, apathetic or cynical.
And we just noticed that Nita was annoyed with Jade.
She became dull, apathetic, unenthusiastic because of Jade's attitude.
But that affected Nita's enthusiasm and it had a circular effect, likely contributing
to Jade's seeming lack of interest.
Well, how do we develop enthusiasm?
You likely noticed that Nita and Jade, they speak the same language, well, almost.
But there are two totally different personalities.
We could be teaching someone of a totally different cultural background.
But the good news is enthusiasm crosses all boundaries.
Please find with me Romans 12-11.
And it's good to remember that enthusiasm is not just some giddy outward show of excitement.
It actually happens from within us, Romans 12-11, be industrious, not lazy, be a glow with
the spirit, slave for Jehovah.
We want to highlight that matter of being a glow with the spirit.
The word translated a glow literally means boiling.
So to maintain enthusiasm, we need a constant flow of God's Holy Spirit.
That's like the heat source that keeps us boiling.
So how do we prepare to teach a Bible student?
Well, we might think, well, I like to go over the lesson in advance and I remind myself
of what the cited scriptures say.
And that's good.
That's necessary.
But that all is just happening in our head.
How do we get the water boiling inside?
Do you remember the suggestion in Ezra 7-10?
Ezra there said that he prepared his heart to teach.
Well, if that thought in mind, please find Psalm 45-1.
We need to click the download button.
We need to download from our head to our heart.
Notice how the heart's involved here.
Psalm 45-1 says, My heart, it does not say my head.
My heart is stirred by something good.
I say, my song is about a king.
May my tongue be the stylus of a skilled copious.
It said, my heart is stirred.
Well, interestingly, the word translated stirred also means to boil or bubble up.
And what's the result if we get that action going inside of us?
The end of the verse said that my tongue, in other words, my speech will be skilled.
Yes, we improve our skills as a disciple maker when we maintain enthusiasm.
And we get our enthusiasm bubbling, boiling, stirred up when we meditate on the importance
of the lesson we're about to teach.
My wife likes to watch cooking shows on television.
And I've noticed that invariably, there's always an electric blender.
I do realize that in some of your cultures, you might prefer mortar and pestle, a sharp
knife to cut things up and mix them together.
But we have all those ingredients laid out on the counter before us, maybe vegetables,
herbs, spices, always salt and pepper.
What is that like?
It's like having the ingredients in our mind.
We've gone over the lesson in advance.
We have the scriptures.
We know what they say.
But we really don't get enthused about that tasty dish until what happens.
We mix all those ingredients in the blender.
We bring it up to temperature, maybe even a boil.
And then after the dish is done and we taste it, mmm, mmm, mmm, mmm, it tastes so good.
We get enthusiastic.
We tell others about this great recipe.
Now they're interested and they want to taste this culinary sensation as well.
So how do we become enthusiastic?
Meditate.
Meditation is the blender.
We take all the ingredients in our mind.
We mix them together into a message that we're now enthused to share with others.
And meditation includes asking ourselves questions to prepare the heart.
For example, before your study, you might ask, how has this information benefited me personally?
And need, I needed to ask herself, why does Jade need to hear this?
Maybe it's the perfect point at the right time for our student.
And so we should ask, how will what I'm going to study benefit my student?
Meditation stirs the heart.
Please find with me first lesson in chapter one.
Seasim or zeal should not be confused with being overly emotional.
That'd be like throwing too much hot pepper into the blender over emotional.
And our heartfelt conviction should not cross the line and become dogmatic as to what
our student must believe.
See if you get the sense of this recipe in 1 Thessalonians 1-5.
It says because the good news we preach did not come to you with speech alone.
In other words, not just words out of the head, but notice the ingredients.
It says also with power and with Holy Spirit and with strong conviction.
When we've meditated on the material and we deliver it from the heart,
it's reflected in our gestures, our facial expressions.
We come across as natural, sincere, but you see animated with proper enthusiasm.
If you're enthusiastic about Bible truths, it is contagious, but in a very good way.
Your Bible student will not become jaded, dull, apathetic.
Instead, your student will be enthusiastic just like you, his teacher.
And now we have the privilege of having brother Seth Hyatt.
He's a helper for the service committee to present the next part on our symposium.
Experience the joy of disciple making, improve your skills, showing empathy.